What problems do you see with synchronous code.
Think about that for a second positive video if you need to ready for the answer.
Well with single threaded synchronous code that JavaScript engine runs it's going to make it really
really difficult.
If we have long running tasks what does that mean.
Imagine we are running Twitter and Twitter.
Well it's an application that we can tweet we can check other people's tweets.
We can look at followers our tweets our notifications our messages.
Imagine if they had a function that had let's say a really big loop that takes five seconds to complete.
When that happens if we just use the JavaScript engine.
Well I wouldn't be able to click.
I wouldn't be able to scroll.
I wouldn't be able to do anything.
A classic example of this is the alert function if I run.
Alert
my javascript is running right now and I can scroll.
I can't click anywhere.
The Web site is frozen in time until I take some sort of action and this mimics a long running javascript
right on the call stack.
Right now we have something like a function that's running.
And until that call stack is empty I can't really do anything.
That's terrible.
Why would anybody use javascript.
I mean it's just going to slow our pages down.
Right.
Well here's the thing I haven't been completely honest with you.
That's because when we talk about JavaScript most of the time you're never just using the JavaScript
engine which is synchronous.
We need to introduce I had the idea of asynchronous code and in the next couple of videos we're going
to talk about what's actually happening behind the scenes where it's not just the JavaScript engine
that's running our code.
We have something called the javascript runtime and as we'll see no J.S. will also implement something
similar because in order for us to write code that we can use in this modern day we need something beyond
just the JavaScript engine.
I know I know we're almost getting there to our complete picture.
Hang in there because this is gonna be a fun one.
I'll see in the next one by.